Matt, it's Bread Week,
and as a special treat
for the viewers and you,
I've brought in my friend, Roger Crust.
He can actually talk.
No, don't be ridiculous, bread can't talk.
That's what I thought. But this guy can.
Say hello to Matt.
No, I will tolerate
your whimsy to a point,
but we do have a show to host.
What was that about?
Why didn't you say hello?
[Roger] Sorry, I got a bit shy.
[scoffs] A bit shy?
Well, I've never met a celebrity before.
What about me?
Could I still say, "Welcome
to The Great British Baking Show?"
Yeah, go on then.
Sorry, I got shy again.
-Welcome to The Great British Baking Show.
-…Show.
There, I did the end bit.
[chuckling] Roger Crust.
[Noel] This time…
-Oh, my God. Okay.
-[gasps]
…the bakers are on Paul's patch.
Trying to get 'em in the proving
drawer before he gets over.
[Noel] Bread.
Panic. Ahhh!
[Noel] They must impress
with perfect pizzas…
-Oh! Forgot my mozzarella.
-[timer beeps]
[Noel] …tackle a classic
French patisserie…
[pounding]
I'm just getting rid of
all of the feelings I've got.
[Noel] …and recreate
a Swedish celebration cake.
[chuckles] It's Tomorrow's World.
What's happening?
-Who will be partying…
-[Maxy] I was born in Sweden.
[Paul] You know your stuff.
-I've got an idea.
-[Noel] …and who will be left
with that sinking feeling?
Didn't see this coming.
[opening theme music playing]
[Janusz] Bread Week. Challenging week.
Paul's favourite. Good luck to everyone.
[Carole] After last week's escapade,
I did lose a little bit of confidence.
But I've got my lucky big pants on now,
my apple catchers,
so, ready for anything today.
I think it was my flavour choices
that got me where I was last week,
and I just hope they like these ones.
[Dawn] I'm scared stiff
about my bread decision.
It will either pay off
or it will be catastrophic. [chuckles]
Good morning, bakers.
Welcome back to the tent.
Now, both Rebs and Abdul
are a bit under the weather this week.
But, er, with your permission,
we thought we'd send them both
straight through to the final.
-I hope that's okay.
-[laughter]
[Noel] Only joking.
They're just gonna miss a week
and they'll be back next week.
Now, for your signature challenge,
the judges would love you to make
two sharing-sized pizzas
that need to be delicious.
Yeah, should be the kind of pizzas
that make Paul and Prue say, "Mamma Mia!"
Or the title of any other film
starring Pierce Brosnan.
You can take inspiration
from anywhere around the world.
GoldenEye!
Good luck, bakers.
The Thomas Crown Affair!
[Noel] You have two hours.
-On your marks.
-[Noel] Get set…
Mrs. Doubtfire!
I mean,
he wasn't even starring in that film.
Wasn't starring, but he was in it.
Pierce Brosnan played
the new boyfriend of the woman that…
-Should we watch it?
-Let's go.
Let's go and watch it. All right, bye-bye.
Bake!
[all laughing]
I've made pizza more than once,
less than ten.
Pizza. Seems simple, doesn't it?
A bit of sourdough starter,
a bit of yeast,
a little bit of beetroot juice.
[Paul] Two hours is not a huge amount.
I would spend most of that
preparing the dough.
The dough's gotta be
a little bit wetter than normal.
[Prue] So you get those sort of bubbles.
Those tend to scorch
on the top, which I love.
I'm very much a firm believer
of pineapple does belong on a pizza.
That's like controversy,
that, innit? [chuckles]
[Paul] Overload with too many fillings
will cause problems to the base,
'cause it won't be able to bake properly.
So, good, strong flavours,
not too many of them.
What we're looking for is golden brown
on the outside, punching with flavour.
Look at this, it didn't really blend well.
We need two. Ideally identical.
Ooh!
I'm just gonna start again.
I hope I have enough sourdough starter.
-[Paul] James, morning.
-Good morning.
-[Prue] Hello, James.
-Tell us all about your pizza.
So, I went for the controversial option.
I went for having pineapple pizza.
I've tried to upscale it a wee bit.
-So, I'm using pancetta.
-[Prue] I think you're very brave, James.
I mean, we might have been
one of the many people
who think that it's a crime
-to put pineapple on pizza.
-Are you? [laughs]
-How did you know--
-[Noel] Why is that?
-I don't know.
-[James] Yeah.
[Noel] When you're a kid,
you love the idea of a Hawaiian pizza.
-Yeah, exactly.
-It blows your little mind. [chuckles]
[Matt] James certainly hopes that
his grilled pineapple and pancetta take
on the classic Hawaiian
will blow Paul and Prue's minds.
But his choice of dough
might cause a bigger stir.
I've some strong bread flour.
And I've also balanced it with about,
like, 14%, er, spelt flour.
-Why?
-It gives it a slight nutty flavour.
-Erm, that--
-Really, 14% gives you a nutty flavour?
[Noel] This is wild.
You're talking nuts, you're talking
pineapple, you're talking ham.
-[laughs]
-Get some toothpaste in there, I'm in.
-Good luck, James.
-Cheers. Thank you.
Is 14 too much spelt flour?
Is it too little? I have no idea.
[Matt] Whatever flour the bakers use,
of equal importance
is kneading their dough
until it's smooth and stretchy
to achieve the texture
the judges will be expecting.
[Sandro] I'm kneading.
-[Paul] Where did you see this technique?
-[chuckling] In a book.
-That wasn't from mine?
-[chuckling] No.
[Paul] What I do is slightly different.
-Care to elaborate?
-No.
[sighs]
[Maxy] I actually learned
from my food tech teacher in year seven.
I don't know if it's
the right technique, is it?
It's, er, it's actually four of you
doing the same technique.
-Really?
-Yeah.
If he's not gonna tell us,
then I just need to crack on, do it my way
and see what he's got to say about it.
[Maxy] The practice went well.
My family loved it.
I only got a tiny slice for myself.
[chuckles]
[Noel] Maxy will be hoping
for a repeat performance with the judges.
Last week's Star Baker has drawn
inspiration from her favourite roast,
topping the pizza with lamb
and flavouring the dough with rosemary.
I'm looking forward to that lamb.
Should be interesting.
How is it being Star Baker?
I still can't believe it.
[all laughing]
I'm so happy.
-You've got stars on, haven't you?
-For you.
-[Maxy] Thank you.
-A little tribute.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-Thank you.
-[Noel] Good luck. Sounds lovely.
So I just hope I live up
to the expectations that they've got now.
[Noel] When they're happy
with its consistency,
the bakers need to cover their dough…
[James] If you use shower caps,
it's just usable.
I always nick 'em from hotels.
If you have any, just pass them on to me.
[Noel] …and rest it in the proving drawer.
Off you go. [grunts]
It needs to double in size,
and then we know that it's ready.
[Matt] But one baker
still hasn't got a dough to prove.
[Syabira] I abandoned my plan
with the beetroot juice.
It didn't foam up really well.
[Matt] Having abandoned her first dough,
Syabira is making a second.
[Syabira] I wasted 20 minutes
just to figure out this dough.
I'm just gonna cut this onion
and start grinding and make my sambal.
[Noel] Syabira's spicy
Malaysian prawn sambal paste
will provide the base for her pizzas,
which will be topped
with prawns, anchovies,
and another Southeast Asian speciality,
the stinky bean.
[Syabira] I don't know
if it's appropriate to say.
Usually it stinks when you have a wee.
[laughs]
So you're feeding Paul Hollywood
something that's going
to make his wee-wee smell?
Yeah, that's how you mark your territory.
That's why I love this lady.
[Matt] While Syabira
finishes prepping her dough…
Ah, this is a nightmare.
…most of the other bakers
are making headway…
[Carole] Crème fraîche,
cream cheese, egg yolk.
…with the sauces that will add
flavour and moisture to their pizzas.
I decided to make my own
tomato sauce from scratch
instead of actually using passata.
[Noel] And while most have gone
for savoury flavours…
It'll take about 40 minutes or so
to reduce it right down to a thick jam.
…Kevin's hoping to hit the sweet spot.
[Kevin] I can't get behind the idea
of pineapple on pizza,
but I thought I'd try
another kind of fruit.
This recipe is called
Now Bring Us Some Figgy Pizza.
[Matt] Kevin's hoping to balance
his sweet chilli jam and balsamic glaze
with salty halloumi and fresh rocket.
And the figs?
The figs, I've just chopped into
little chunks to scatter over the top.
Interesting.
-Good luck, look forward to trying it.
-Thank you.
Good luck.
[Kevin] The figs had the Prue approval.
Ap-Prue-val.
[chuckles]
[Matt] Kevin's is the only
vegetarian pizza.
Yeah, I just need to let this
boil and boil and boil and boil
and boil and boil and boil.
[Matt] While he can relax
until he's ready to bake…
[Janusz] Some black pudding.
There is a lot to do.
[Matt] …the other bakers
have additional elements to cook.
[Maxy] Lamb is my favourite meat.
If I had long enough time,
I would've made roasted lamb.
[Noel] But Dawn's not letting the brevity
of the challenge interfere
with her preferred cut.
[Dawn] It's a beef… Using stewing steak.
It's a relatively
cheap cut of beef actually,
but it's lovely if you can give it
a long cook.
So I've cut it quite small
in the hopes that I can get it
to get reasonably tender in time.
I'm a little bit nervous about that,
but we'll see.
[Noel] Before baking,
Dawn will top her pizza
with mozzarella and fresh chillies.
And for added Tex-Mex appeal,
she'll garnish
with sour cream and guacamole.
[Dawn] We've had it
for dinner twice at home.
I made two sharing-sized pizzas,
and two of us, erm, didn't share.
We just ate the whole lot. [chuckles]
[Matt] And she's not the only baker
looking stateside for inspiration.
[Sandro] You can't beat
a Texas smoky barbecue rub.
No, you can't beat that.
Americans, we barbecue
the best, isn't it.
I'm gonna get the peppers chopped up.
And my pineapple, of course. Yeah.
[Matt] Not only is Sandro combining
tropical fruits with a taste of the USA,
he's topping with Spanish chorizo
and filling the crust
with a little flavour of France.
So, I'm stuffing it
with camembert and honey.
-I love a stuffed crust.
-Yeah? And I'm making it heart-shaped.
Just to add some love to it.
-Good luck.
-[all laugh]
-Thank you.
-That smells so good.
-Could you do the judging? Yeah?
-Yeah.
[Matt] Bakers, you are halfway through.
-It's rising.
-[Noel] Imagine that.
They don't have to
because they are halfway--
Sometimes it helps to imagine things…
-Yeah, but they--
-…just before they happen.
But you said it after.
Oh, yeah.
[James] My bread seems to not be rising,
which is a little bit alarming because,
erm, it's never happened before.
[laughs]
[Carole] Let me just keep it in there
until I'm ready to roll. One minute.
[James] I'm gonna try
and get a second bread dough going.
Hopefully that'll be ready in time.
-[Matt] What are you doing?
-Cutting up some reblochon.
-What's that?
-It's a cheese that you don't like.
I don't like any cheese.
What else is going in it?
More cheese.
-Ugh! Which ones?
-Some Gruyère.
-You're making these up?
-No, I'm not.
[Noel] Carole's Gruyère
and reblochon cheeses
will be combined
with pancetta, potatoes, and onions
to recreate
the classic French dish tartiflette.
So you're putting tartiflette on a pizza.
That's not unusual.
Where did you have this?
We used to move boats
from the UK down to the Med.
-[Paul and Prue] Right.
-Used to have to eat pizza
'cause it was quick and on the go like.
And this is one of my favourite ones.
Okay, so that makes sense.
-Good luck. Thank you.
-Thank you. [chuckles]
[Noel] When it comes to combining
national dishes with her pizzas,
Carole was in good company.
[Janusz] The combination works well
and it's something, you know,
different approach towards pizza.
-Good morning. Good morning.
-Good morning, Janusz.
We want to know all about your pizza.
-Doing full English breakfast on pizza.
-[Noel laughs]
There's gonna be some black pudding,
gonna be sausage,
there's gonna be bacon,
mushroom, and baked beans.
-[Noel chuckling]
-[sighs]
I was, I was feeling happy
until you said baked beans.
[Matt] To complete his full English,
Janusz is adding cheddar and mozzarella.
And in the middle, he'll crack an egg
a few minutes before removing the pizzas
from the oven.
[Janusz] I'm not concerned,
and I'm hoping they're gonna
like the flavours.
All right, it's risen, which is good.
[Matt] Are you on a schedule?
[Maxy] Think so.
I'm about to shape the dough.
Gonna throw my toppings on and bake.
-Go on, then. Go on, then.
-Yeah.
-Go on. [laughs]
-Go on.
The second batch
has not proved enough yet.
Erm, either way,
so I think just go for batch one.
Usually, it'll be a bit, like,
puffed up and crispy,
but I think
it's just gonna be crispy. [laughs]
[Carole] They've got a bit
of a hole going on.
Put potato over it.
[chuckles]
The beef is not as tender
as I wanted it to be.
It's too chewy.
How long do we have?
You have half an hour left
to make your pizzas.
I can't delay more.
Basically, if it's going wrong,
you've still got time to order one.
-[all laughing]
-[thunder rumbling]
[James] As my English teacher used to say,
that is a symbolic downpour.
[laughs]
[Janusz] I'm gonna bake one at a time.
I've tried at home,
baking couple at a time.
And they don't bake that well as one.
[Matt] Dawn, Sandro, and James…
Bake, baby, bake.
…are also using this strategy.
[Janusz] I'm using the stone
because you get much better result.
[Matt] Everyone else is baking
both their pizzas at the same time.
[Carole] These are a bit well-cooked.
All stuck together.
[Syabira] Nothing can compare
with stinky bean smell.
I don't know how to describe it.
It's just stinky.
[Carole] Right, ready, steady.
I'm gonna set my time for ten
and then have a look
and see how they're doing.
[Syabira] 220, 10 to 12 minutes.
[Dawn] Oh, come on.
Normally when I put them in,
they kinda go poof
and they're done really quickly.
I'm not going to jinx it.
The crust is puffing up slightly. [laughs]
I never knew pizza dough
could be so stressful. [laughs]
[Janusz] Egg is going in.
Don't let me down.
[Matt] This is a typical breakfast
for you?
This is a Sunday breakfast
when you went out on Saturday.
Would you go to Revenge in Brighton?
I prefer Legends.
-Ah, you prefer Legends.
-[chuckles]
I can see that you've been there.
Well, I'm familiar with the concept.
[James] Oh!
Glasses!
[Matt] That's looking good, innit?
[Janusz] Yeah, not bad.
See, spelt flour is the way forward.
That's how you do it, Mr Hollywood.
It's got a little grease.
But I'll say it's baked.
[Maxy] Oh, no! Bit oily.
[Noel] How does one ungrease a pizza?
Same way I ungrease my forehead.
-Ah, I see.
-A little bit of a dabbing.
[Maxy] How long have we got left?
You have 15 minutes remaining.
[chuckling nervously]
It was going so well.
[Carole] Kevin, I've put
too much cheese on.
-[Kevin] No such thing.
-[Carole] I know.
But it might be in Mr Hollywood's eyes.
-It's just a sea of cheese!
-Great.
A bit soft underneath.
I'm gonna give it another five.
I'll swap them over as well.
The oven must be a bit uneven.
-Oh! Forgot my mozzarella.
-[timer beeps]
Oops.
I knew there was something missing.
I'm just gonna sit here and watch them.
[grunts] It's a bit different in size.
[Carole] One, two, three.
Yup.
-Oh, my God! Okay.
-[gasps]
-[Syabira] Sorry.
-[chuckles]
-Bakers, you have one minute remaining.
-[laughs]
Yeah.
Nope.
[Maxy] It's so much oil in the middle.
Egg is runny.
Stick some figs on and then
drizzle some balsamic glaze.
I think it's a winner.
I'm going to do 30 seconds
and then blowtorch the egg.
What can you do?
Whoop!
Twenty more seconds. 19. 18…
It's hot, but let's make it hotter, eh?
Sixteen, fifteen…
The bottom is cooked.
It's just cooked.
Bakers. Your time is up!
Please step away from your pizzas.
I feel the egg yolk will be runny.
It should be egg-cellent.
[Carole] I think I overdid it again.
[Matt] The bakers will now
have their pizzas judged by Prue and Paul.
-Hello, Syabira.
-Hello.
Hi, Syabira.
This is my sourdough
and yeast dough pizza base.
It looks great.
I like the walls that you've built,
and how you've kept it all inside.
Looks very neat.
Good base on it. Crispy.
[Syabira] I have anchovies,
dried shrimps, and chilli.
I don't get all the flavours,
except the chilli.
It's slightly overwhelmed by the chilli.
But nevertheless,
it has a great structure inside.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Well done.
I think you've slightly overdone the base.
It is very dark.
[Prue] Love your whole
pizza parlour table.
-[Paul] Still running.
-Still a bit runny. Great!
-[chuckles]
-I can't take him anywhere. Honestly.
There's so much in there.
[Prue] The crust is lovely and thin.
[Janusz] Thank you.
[Paul] Weirdly, I'm not getting
huge amounts of flavour from it.
It needs to be a little bit more punchy.
-Thank you.
-Well done.
-Very pretty. Base looks quite nice.
-[Prue] Yeah.
-It'll be fascinating to taste it.
-[Prue] I like the colour.
[Paul] Yeah.
-Your dough looks a bit dead.
-[Prue chuckles]
The chilli on the bottom
works beautifully well with the balsamic.
And then that little hint of fig--
Some of it's too sweet.
[Paul] Yeah, well done.
The base looks all right.
Got life in there. The shape is awful.
-This one's all over the place.
-Yeah.
Love the colours on the top, though.
Nice texture on the crumb on the end.
Thank you.
You promised us an upscale version
of ham and pineapple.
You've done it.
Thank you. [laughs]
I think it's a little bit too dry.
-You need more tomato.
-Fair do's. Thank you.
[Paul] Could've added
a bit more water to your dough.
-Okay.
-To allow a bit of fluffiness to it.
There's no rise.
Surprisingly bland.
Okay.
Was that beef mince?
It's not mince. It's, er, stewing beef.
Mince would've been better.
-Yeah.
-That would've given you more punch.
-You've chosen the wrong meat.
-The chilli is strong.
I'm disappointed. Never mind.
There's lots more time.
-[Paul] Quite a thick base, isn't it?
-[Maxy] Yeah.
It's a bit more like an American pizza.
Mmm, flavour is fantastic.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] It's quite rich, the lamb.
You've got a great blend of seasoning.
It's delicious.
The only issue for me
is that base is too thick.
It needs to be a bit thinner.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-It's great shape.
-It really looks so inviting, doesn't it?
Yeah, it does.
[Prue] Thank you, darling.
-This is really messy pizza.
-Yes, it is. [chuckles]
I think your barbecue flavours inside
with the pineapple
and the camembert
running all the way through,
it carries such a nice flavour.
-Pleased with that.
-[Paul] It's ingenious.
You have got quite a lot
of different flavours there.
But they're still separate.
I'd have one of them
if I was in a pizzeria.
-Great. [chuckles]
-[Paul] Well done.
Er, you put too much of it on because
it's spewing out all over the place.
-You can't really see the pizza at all.
-[Carole] Hmm.
[Paul] Little on this
is better than a lot.
-Okay.
-You've layered on so much that
that's what's happened to the base.
-It should be holding.
-[Carole] Mmm-hmm.
Tastes divine.
[Prue] It's absolutely beautiful.
You only made one mistake.
Too much of a good thing.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-[chuckles] Thank you.
-Well done.
-Your worst nightmare.
I didn't even look at it.
I just looked at you.
[laughing]
[Carole] Who doesn't want
too much topping on a pizza?
Usually, it's not enough topping.
That was bad. It was bad. [chuckles]
[groans]
[Sandro] I didn't get a handshake,
but I was almost there.
I am glowing,
probably the foundation on my skin.
But, I'm glowing with happiness.
Super happy.
[Noel] The bakers were able
to practise for the first challenge.
But the next one is a mystery.
Bakers, it's time
for your technical challenge,
which today has been set
by the priest of yeast, Paul Hollywood.
You have to be fast
and accurate with this recipe.
[Matt] Mmm-hmm. Amen.
Okay, as ever, this challenge
will be judged blind.
We have to ask these two poppets
to exit the tent.
For your technical challenge,
Paul would like you each to make
a dozen identical pain aux raisins.
[Noel] Your pain aux raisins must be
evenly filled with raisins
and a smooth crème pat.
Each pain aux raisin should have
a crispy, flaky laminated dough
and should be rolled to a perfect swirl,
which keeps its shape.
One more thing, Paul has specifically said
he doesn't want tails.
[Matt] You have two hours and 45 minutes.
-Seems ample.
-Oh, seems like plenty of time.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
[in sing-song voice] Bake!
[Kevin exhales sharply]
-I have an idea of what we're making.
-Bread with raisins.
That is a challenging one, I must admit.
So, Paul, pain aux raisins,
that's not bread.
Basically, it's an enriched dough…
-[Prue] Yeah.
-…with butter folded through it.
They've got to make a dough,
knock out your butter,
place it onto two-thirds of the dough,
fold over the exposed bit, fold it up.
And that is basically one turn.
You have to repeat that process
of folding another three times.
They roll it out again a bit more.
They need to pop that into a fridge,
because if they don't,
all the butter just pours out
and it's dry as a bone.
We did mention the tails.
As you roll up the pain aux raisins,
you're left with a little bit at the end.
If the pain aux raisins
is not proved enough,
it'll pop the end out, it's called
a little tail. We don't want that.
-Let's try a pain aux raisin.
-[Prue] Perfect texture.
Mmm. I'd forgotten how good these are.
-Just so divine.
-Can we have a cup of tea?
"Make a dough,
using 25 grams of the butter."
Which is very open
to interpretation. [laughs]
[Kevin] I'm going to melt the butter,
so there's a bit of warmth
to get the yeast activated.
Erm, oh, wait, no,
it says place in the freezer.
[James] This is an enriched dough.
So it's along a similar line,
like a brioche kind of bread.
-[Carole] An egg.
-So it just requires a bit of attention.
[Kevin] There probably is a technique,
but at the moment,
I'm just bunging it all together.
[Syabira] I'm really not sure.
Say hello to someone that you love.
Hello, Brad. That's my boyfriend.
-[Noel] What's he look like?
-[Syabira] No hair.
-He wears spectacles, glasses.
-[chuckles]
-Is he on the "Guess Who" board?
-[both laugh]
It's actually pretty much done.
I'll place it in the freezer.
That's for five minutes.
[Sandro] With the remaining butter,
we'll make a rectangle
to go into the dough.
[pounding]
I'm just getting rid of
all of the feelings I've got.
[Matt] To give the pain aux raisins
their flaky texture,
the bakers must fold butter into the dough
in a process called lamination.
"Roll the dough three more times,
chilling between each one."
[Matt] If the dough gets warm,
the butter could leak out during baking…
Roll and chill, roll and chill.
…resulting in dry, tough pastries.
[Kevin] The butter is torn
underneath the pastry,
so it means pastry's gonna touch pastry.
But I've gone and done it now. [laughing]
-[Noel] Did you get a handshake?
-[Dawn] No.
[Noel] What did Prue say?
-She said it was bland.
-[Noel] That's fighting talk.
-I know.
-[Noel] Could you take Prue in a fight?
-Of course.
-I'll handle Paul, don't worry about that.
That's a deal.
[Noel] So we're almost
a wrestling partnership.
-We are. Like a tag team.
-Can't wait. I'll order some trunks.
[Syabira] This is my last fold.
So back for chilling.
Very helpful. Says, "Make the crème pat."
It's like a French custard.
It's egg yolks and sugar and milk.
And cornflour, basically.
The key to perfect crème pat,
which I struggle with, is patience.
Don't be scared of it.
Treat it with absolute contempt.
Crème pâtissière I can make
with my eyes shut.
[Noel] Crème pat
should be smooth and creamy.
This is the right consistency.
[Noel] If it's too thin,
it will make the dough soggy.
I thought it would firm up.
Didn't see this coming.
[Janusz] It needs to go
into the fridge fast.
It takes a long time to cool.
So they're halfway through
and it's a two-hour-45 challenge.
I can't do the maths.
-I can do it.
-Okay, go for it.
Okay. Bakers, you have
eleventy-five minutes left.
[laughing]
You're halfway through.
-[exclaims nervously]
-Last roll.
So now I need to roll it to 30 times 40.
-Did you get those guns from doing this?
-Yeah.
See, kids, if you roll pastry enough,
you can have guns like that.
-Like that.
-Look at that.
-Slightly smaller than mine.
[chuckles]
"Spread the crème pâtissière
over the dough."
"Sprinkle the raisins and orange zest
over the crème pat, roll into a sausage."
Now we're rolling up really tightly.
[Janusz] It'll be a big sausage.
Just gonna divide them into 12.
Problem is trying to get them
all the same size.
Thirty divided by 12?
[Dawn] If I do three centimetres…
That was a bit wobbly. Oh, dear.
[Carole] They are quite gooey.
[Kevin] Very wet.
Man, the crème pat didn't quite work out.
I'm pinching my tails
because Paul doesn't like a higher tail.
[Carole] That's your tail.
So you tuck it in underneath?
[Dawn] Hopefully it'll keep it
where it's meant to be.
How much time have we got left?
[in cockney accent]
Bakers, you've an hour left.
What you do with the hour's up to you.
I'd do some baking,
but obviously it's up to you.
"Prove," which is what worries me,
'cause how long do you prove it for?
I'm going to prove them
for around 25 minutes.
[Matt] If the pain aux raisin
are under-proved,
they won't develop
the flaky texture the judges expect.
[Syabira] I will prove them
until I think it looks fine and ready.
They do need to put on some puff.
I haven't put them in a proving bag.
They won't dry out.
They're covered in a layer
of liquid crème pat anyway.
Who knows how they're gonna end up,
this is uncharted territory.
I feel like patience
is the name of the game right now.
They are getting bigger now,
so I'm quite… quite happy.
[Matt] So what would you normally
be doing of an afternoon?
Napping?
-Know where I sleep the best?
-Where?
In the theatre.
What was that one that was about?
Boy George…
-Taboo?
-Taboo.
I was in the original cast of it.
Or maybe it was perhaps--
Might have seen me.
Oh! Made an impression, didn't I?
-On that…
-Cringe.
Ooh. It seems like this thing
gone really hot
and the butter leak out.
[chuckles] Oh, stressing me out now.
[James] They haven't puffed up
as much as I expected,
but I don't know how much
they're meant to. [chuckles]
Egg wash and bake.
[Carole] Come on, boys.
They probably have to go in
for about 12, 15 minutes or so.
[Janusz] Until they are
golden-brown and beautiful.
Thing is, I should have put them
on two trays.
'Cause when they grow,
they'll bump into each other.
-Schoolboy error.
-Start the timer.
I'm gonna go ten minutes to start.
-Looking pretty decent, I hope.
-I think they're looking okay-ish.
I've got a nice view of all the butter
weeping straight out of it.
No, this is grim viewing.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
[Maxy] Okay.
They look all right. They smell good.
I see lamination for the nation.
Okay, so those are definitely ready.
It doesn't look like
what I've seen in a supermarket. [laughs]
Almost had one of those moments.
[Dawn] Oh, dear, that's a bad one.
Big tail.
On the sides, it's not cooked very evenly.
Yet another issue.
[Carole] They're only just touching.
"Make the icing and drizzle
over the cooled pain aux raisins."
-Fan power.
-How long have we got left, guys?
Bakers, you have one minute left.
Panic. Ahhh!
[Syabira] It's a bit runny, this icing.
Just a dollop in the middle
and it does its thing.
Oh, dear. That's not very neat.
They're too hot.
Oh, I hope I've got enough icing.
This is a good one, that stays up front.
[Dawn] I wish my sizes
were more equal, but…
-[Kevin] They are what they are.
-Bakers, your time is up.
[Sandro] Well done.
Elbow.
Please bring your pain aux raisins
down to the front
and place them behind your photograph.
How did you get them so round?
How you did that, I have no idea.
That's insane.
[Carole] I hate technicals.
[Noel] Paul and Prue are looking
for 12 flaky pain aux raisins,
filled with a smooth crème pâtissière.
And they have no idea whose are whose.
[Paul] Now these are quite flat.
-That looks as if the butter ran out.
-And it did.
The flavours are all right,
but it is quite doughy.
A similar thing with this one.
They're square. Too many on a tray,
so they've joined.
It's lost quite a bit of butter as well.
[Prue] A bit too much icing for me.
-Yeah. Too packed together.
-[Prue] Mmm.
[Paul] Moving on.
I like the look of these.
-Yeah, nice and golden.
-[Paul] High, quite wide. No tails.
You have a flake.
-Good flavour.
-Very good.
Moving on. If I was in a shop,
would you have that one?
-Or that one? Same price, sir.
-[chuckling]
Flavour's okay, but so irregular.
These are all regular.
-Some of them have sprung a little.
-Yeah.
Bit small again.
-Needed to be a bit bigger.
-[Prue] Not quite risen enough.
[Paul] Nice flake and flavour.
Just needed
another 10, 15 minutes' proving.
Moving on.
They're too small. Under-proved again.
But flavour's good.
-Very good orangey flavour. I love that.
-I like the look of these.
Yeah, some of them.
Could feel cheated if I got that one.
-[Paul] Mmm.
-Actually, that's really nice.
Not bad. Lamination's all right. Flavour?
-Lovely flavour. Lots of orange.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-[Prue] These are--
-[Paul] Everyone's got a tail.
[Prue] They've sprung. It's well-risen.
[Paul] Lost a bit of butter.
See how dry it is down there?
And the flavour's quite nice.
But the tails are a bit ugly.
And also that's too much icing.
[Matt] The pain aux raisins will now
be ranked from last to first place.
In eighth place, we have this one.
Carole. The wrong shape, aren't they?
Because you had too many on the tray,
and so they stuck together.
It's much too much icing and under-baked.
Seventh, we have this one.
Under-proved and you didn't
allow them to grow. They're skinny.
[Matt] Dawn is sixth, Syabira's fifth,
Sandro's fourth, and James is third.
Right. We're now getting
into the really good ones.
Erm, who is this? This is number two.
Maxy, they tasted lovely,
they're very nice and tall.
-One or two could have been bigger.
-Thank you.
And in first we have these.
[applause]
[Syabira giggling]
You had beautiful colour,
great flake, and great flavour.
[Maxy] Well done.
-My God.
-[indistinct chatter]
[Janusz] I just cannot believe
I got first in technical on Bread Week
because bread is… Wow.
It has a mind of its own.
Yours were really good.
[Maxy] I was worried about my buns,
but they got me second place,
so I'm proud of them.
Little bit of a disappointment,
but it was my fault. [chuckles]
[Kevin] That went better than I thought.
Second last. Rather than last.
[laughing]
[Noel] Just one challenge remains
before Prue and Paul
decide who will be this week's Star Baker
and who will be leaving the competition.
[Matt] Good morning, bakers,
welcome back to the tent
for your showstopper challenge.
Now, today, the judges would like you
to create your own interpretation
of the Swedish smörgåstårta.
Can you say that word again?
I've never heard it before.
Sure. Swedish.
-[giggles]
-[Noel] Mmm.
A smörgåstårta
is Swedish for "sandwich cake."
The judges are looking for an incredible
savoury celebration cake,
made up of layers of sliced bread
with delicious fillings
and topped with exquisite
savoury decorations.
You have four and a half hours.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
[in sing-song voice] Bake!
[James] I've never heard
of a smörgåstårta.
Trying to search them, I was like,
I'm not sure that these exist.
I think they just made it up. [laughs]
Go to Sweden quite a bit,
but I've never had one of these.
[Syabira] Smörgåstårta?
It'll be interesting how people say it.
Smörgåstårta? Smörgåstår… Bah.
Smörgåstårta.
[laughs]
"Smörgås," Swedish for sandwich,
"Tårta," cake. Sandwich cake.
[Paul] You've got bread layers
with savoury fillings all the way down.
Savoury outside
and a beautiful decoration on the top.
So I look at my list,
it's just a lot of things to make.
I'm nervous of some of our bakers
going a bit over the top.
I'll have three different fillings,
sausages and a lot of cheese.
[Paul] If your fillings are too wet,
it'll soak into the bread
and you'll get a sodden mess.
That's what exactly I did for my practice.
You want it consistent
with a beautiful, all-round flavour.
There's too much in it. [chuckles]
Must look like a cake
and taste like a sandwich.
[Carole] It's the beast. [grunting]
-[Prue] Hello, Carole.
-Morning.
So tell us all about your smörgåstårta.
I've been to Sweden a few times,
I've got some friends there.
And I'm doing a fish one
because if you go
into one of the supermarkets over there,
it is all fish.
[Matt] Mackerel and salmon
take centre stage
in Carole's smörgåstårta,
along with pickled cucumber and egg,
sandwiched between white seeded bread.
Can you tell us
about the dough itself, the flour?
-One kilo of flour.
-[Paul] How much liquid?
[Carole] Seven-fifty.
That's not the recipe you just told me.
-Go on.
-[Paul] It's too dry.
Probably down to how much flour
you've got on the bench.
-I'll get more water. [laughs]
-Good luck.
[Carole] He's a prince of yeast, isn't he?
I was getting all, like,
flustered talking to him.
[Noel] A dependable bread
is the foundation
upon which
every great smörgåstårta is built.
[Sandro] I'm making a plain white bread
'cause it's the easiest thing to do.
Can't go wrong,
[Noel] That's not stopped some bakers
being out there
with their flour choices.
I'm using emmer flour.
I only discovered it a couple of days ago.
[Dawn] I wanted to get that kind of Greek,
slightly nuttier
sort of flavour to the bread,
and I'm using an ancient type of wheat
that my friend's son grows.
[Matt] Inspired by her holidays to Greece,
Dawn's nutty whole wheat bread
will be stuffed with olives and feta
and sandwiched
pulled chicken souvlaki and tzatziki.
Are you using coriander in this?
-I have not got coriander in it, no.
-Unusual.
-[chuckles] I don't like it.
-Coriander's in everything. And sesame?
-I know. I haven't put any sesame.
-No sesame, either?
-Okay.
-It's the flavours that I like.
-Looking forward to this.
-Thank you.
[Matt] When they're happy
with its texture…
It sort of springs back.
…the bakers need to get the dough proving…
[gasps, chuckles]
[softly] Rise.
…and crack on with the cooked elements…
-[Syabira] This is foolproof recipe.
-…that will fill their sandwich cakes.
[Janusz] Not sure why I'm trusted
with a deep fat fryer.
[Noel] I wouldn't have allowed it.
I said, "Guys, no.
Me and deep fat fryer? Come on."
I feel like I'm gonna walk off over there,
I'll look behind me,
the tent will be in flames.
If there are flames,
you know who caused them.
[Matt] Fiery curry sauce
will cover Janusz's showstopper,
and it'll be filled
with fried cod and mayo,
crispy chips and mushy peas
in homage to his favourite post-pub meal.
I obviously think
it sounds completely mad.
And if you can pull it off,
I'll be so impressed.
I must be mad.
-Anyway, good luck.
-Thank you.
Fish and chips
is a peculiar British thing,
especially with vinegar and everything,
yeah, which is really good.
[Noel] But Janusz is not the only baker
re-imagining a national staple
for their smörgåstårta.
So nasi lemak
is one of Malaysian favourite to go for.
I am actually
trying to mimic the kick of ginger
and a bit of, erm, the taste
of the coconut in this mousse.
[Noel] Inside Syabira's
nasi lemak-flavoured smörgåstårta
will be another Malaysian speciality,
roasted chicken in a spicy sambal paste
sandwiched between layers of seeded bread.
This challenge is right up your street.
You've incorporated so many different
flavours in there, textures as well.
-I hope it works.
-Yeah, interesting.
And it's lovely the way you stick
to your Malaysian roots. I love it.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-Thank you.
-[Syabira] This is the sambal.
Dried shrimp, onion, chilli paste.
[imitates train horn tooting]
[Noel] And Syabira has competition
in the spicy stakes.
I like my food to be proper seasoned,
all the flavours coming through.
I mean, it'll keep vampires away.
So Noel might not like it much.
[Noel] Coated in maple,
bacon, and cream cheese
and filled with pulled beef brisket,
sloppy joe sauce, and spicy sirloin steak,
Sandro's three-tiered smörgåstårta
has been designed
to meet a particular need.
[Sandro] When you go to a festival
and you get really tipsy,
you need something
to bring down the drunk.
So you go for the burger
that looks most appealing.
-You go to a lot of festivals.
-I saw her at Wireless last year.
Glastonbury, in the mosh pit.
[laughter]
[Paul] We get barbecue vibes from you.
Yeah. I mean,
I am Brazilian after all. [laughs]
It's a proper meat fest, isn't it?
All right, good luck, mate.
-Sounds interesting.
-Thank you.
I would say they're doubled.
[Matt] When they're happy
with their first prove…
We have black dough, a white dough.
What more can you want?
…the bakers
need to shape the dough into tins…
[Maxy] Knocking out the air.
I'm trying to get 'em in
the proving drawer before he gets here.
I'm just spreading out the filling.
[Matt] …and prove it again before baking.
I'm going to make
wee buns that look like pandas.
Which is my favourite part of this dish.
You know, I love a panda. [laughs]
[Matt] With the aid of squid ink,
James is making two-tone milk bread
and filling it
with char siu pork and plum sauce
for a Chinese panda-inspired smörgåstårta.
[James] I have a tattoo of a panda,
first one I got,
and it was because in 2016,
pandas were made no longer endangered,
so I thought that we should celebrate them
being closer to back to normal, you know.
Like he's gone for a wee bath,
isn't it? [laughs]
♪ Pandas in a Jacuzzi ♪
[Matt] Bakers, you are halfway through.
My bread's not even in the oven yet.
It didn't rise as much as I wanted it to,
but hopefully, it rises more
in the second rise.
[Noel] Maxy's making
a plain white and seeded wholemeal loaf
for a showstopper that's based
on a classic seafood smörgåstårta
she remembers from her childhood.
I thought I'd stick to the traditional
since I was born in Sweden.
-So you know what you're doing.
-Don't really. But I've got an idea.
Sounds fresh, the flavours
seem to balance all the way through.
-It's just getting the look.
-Yeah.
You've been having a good week so far,
let's hope it continues.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you.
[Maxy] I do feel extra pressure.
Everyone expects me
to be able to make a masterpiece.
Let's do this, babes.
My dough has proved. It's time to bake.
This hand
has been specially moisturised today
so I can get that shake.
[Noel] While the others start baking…
Are you joking me? It wasn't pre-heating.
…Maxy risks falling behind.
That's a nightmare.
[Noel] And besides a cold oven,
she faces a daunting challenge.
I'm trying to make mayonnaise
for the first time. I've never made it.
-Mayonnaise. That hard?
-Yeah. I've only done it once.
Why does one make mayonnaise?
-You just buy it.
-[laughs]
You get better flavour
and it shows skill as well.
I'm gonna make my own mayo,
one of those weird things people do.
[Maxy] This is a workout. Ooh, gosh.
[Kevin] You need the fats of the oil
to emulsify
with the fats of the egg yolks.
[laughs] I was whisking too hard.
[Kevin] Janusz has made
a rather fine mayonnaise.
It's good. My first ever mayo! [laughs]
It's not rocket science, I think.
[Maxy] I just hope
I have enough cooling time.
[Matt] Bakers, an hour and 46 minutes ago,
we should have told you
you have two hours
and 46 minutes remaining.
-[Maxy] An hour left.
-An hour left, yeah.
-[Maxy laughs]
-I did the maths.
So I'm looking for it to sound hollow.
[Sandro] Got a nice beat.
They haven't puffed up
as much as I would've liked.
[Matt] If the bakers
cut their bread now, it'll tear.
It's like a game of chicken… [laughs]
trying to decide when I dare cut it.
[Matt] Most are using the cooling time
to work on decorations.
What are you doing there?
So I'm building a little person
and he'll be holding a little fishing rod.
What are you gonna call him? Rod?
[laughing] Rod. I like it.
If it was a woman,
you could call her Annette.
But they're not holding a net.
-Right.
-It's a rod.
I did my best.
[Noel] Rod will sit on Kevin's
two-tier smörgåstårta,
which is based
on his wife's favourite fish pie recipe.
I've baked for years,
but I didn't really cook.
My wife had to teach me how to cook.
She makes a mean fish pie,
so I think it's a pretty safe bet.
[Matt] Whether from the sea…
[Kevin] So I've got salmon
and smoked haddock.
-They'll go with some prawns.
-[Matt] …or the land…
[James] Oh, yes, that's ready.
[Matt] …the savoury elements
need extra attention.
What are you doing now?
It's Tomorrow's World. What's happening?
I don't want great chunks.
[Matt] Before they can fill
the baked smörgåstårtas…
Looks like human flesh, to be honest.
If you had to eat someone here,
who would you eat?
-Matt.
-Matt?
Yeah.
-Really?
-So I soak up all his jokes.
Wow! What about me?
-Nothing. Am I the wishbone?
-[both chuckle]
Still warm,
but I think we're okay to cut it.
[Carole] Bit like fleecing a sheep.
[Syabira] Comes off quite nicely.
-[Matt] Oh, look at the pandas.
-[James] One's missing an ear.
Don't know where it went.
It's not in the pan.
Has anyone seen one of James' ears?
-[James laughs]
-In my pocket.
-Oh!
-Oh, no!
[James] Feels quite close in texture,
and doesn't feel very light and fluffy.
[Noel] Bakers, you've had four hours.
Your Smork and Mindys
need to be finished in half an hour.
[laughing]
So the first layer
is the fish filling with tartar sauce.
Gonna put the eggs.
[James] This is the plum sauce going on,
and I'm gonna shred some cabbage
and start layering it up.
-That was close. [chuckles]
-[Kevin] This is fish pie filling.
And I need some prawns.
I'm adding the sirloin steak filling.
It's already weird
I'm doing a savoury cake.
-How's this all going?
-Yeah. Good. Just gonna put the second…
I've just realised
I needed four layers, not three.
[Matt] You've got to make
a whole layer out of that?
[Sandro] Like a burger, innit?
I don't have enough time,
so I'm trying to power through.
I'm just gonna spray vinegar on chips.
And now mushy peas.
My mousse is very runny.
I'm not happy with it.
So stressful about my mousse.
-[Sandro] I tried to do it neatly.
-Change of plans.
I'm gonna use cream cheese
mixed with this one, add more ginger.
I'm about to pipe curry sauce,
and it's turning by itself,
which is pretty helpful. [chuckles]
[James] A bit runny,
it's not covering it well,
but I'm gonna
stick stuff on the side to hide that.
It's gonna be a milder taste
of the coconut milk with the cream cheese.
Lesser hiccups, isn't it?
-[Janusz] How long we've got left?
-Ten minutes left.
[Carole] Oh, this is untidy.
[Kevin] Something just fell off.
[Maxy] We are slicing the babe in half.
-[Janusz] My boyfriend designed it.
-It's the future winner.
[both laughing]
[Carole] Lots of decorating.
I'm feeling quite good about it.
We'll put the good panda at the top.
He deserves pride of place.
I think this could send me home.
It's not looking too hot.
We can make it.
Trying to use a chive
to make a fishing line.
Bakers, you have one minute left.
You are kidding me.
I know his backside's falling out.
Stay. Oh, God.
A fish and chip fort.
I'm so sorry
for whoever has to hoover after me.
It's very fiddly under pressure, this bit.
Anything else I do
is going to make it look worse.
Ah, I'm just throwing things on now.
There we go.
-Your time is up.
-[timer beeping]
Sure. [chuckles]
Please step away
from your smöchalochodochens.
-[chuckles]
-[Noel] That was a long one.
We're a little bit older now.
Well, actually, a lot older.
[Maxy] Oh, gosh, what a mess.
[Matt] The bakers' smörgåstårta
will now face the judgement
of Prue and Paul.
Janusz, would you like
to bring up your smaller tortoise?
Wow!
-Unbelieva-bubble.
-[chuckles]
[Prue] To be honest,
I think the idea of fish and chips
in a sandwich is disgusting.
[laughter]
[Matt] Whoa.
[Janusz] You've got a layer of fish,
some potatoes, and a layer of mushy peas
in curry sauce-flavoured icing.
-[Prue] Look at that.
-[Noel] Wow.
[Prue] That looks really beautiful.
Very clever fellow.
Your bread is lovely. Really light.
You get fish and chips all the way down,
including the mushy peas and curry sauce.
It's ingenious.
[chuckles]
-Are you still disgusted, Prue?
-No. I have to eat my words.
That is delicious.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-Well done.
-Fantastic.
[whispers] Genius.
How very Fanny Cradock.
-[laughs]
-It's very '60s.
-[Prue] It's absolutely lovely.
-Thank you.
Maybe because
I practically come from the '60s.
-Yeah.
-[Paul] Right.
[Carole] I did a white seeded bread.
The bottom layer is a mackerel mousse
with beetroot on top…
-Look at that.
-…with another layer of avocado and egg.
And the next layer is salmon mousse
with salmon slices and pickled cucumber.
The beetroot layers
with the mackerel is lovely.
The egg and avocado
needs a bit more basic seasoning.
Salmon and pickled cucumber's lovely.
-Your bread is still a bit too dry.
-Okay.
I would've gone more rye
to balance with the fish.
-Hmm, okay.
-Thank you.
[Matt] Well done.
A bit wonky, but I like the top
with the panda. It's clever.
Thank you. It's milk bread
that's been marbled with squid ink,
plum sauce and char siu pork
and pork belly
done in a sweet chilli sauce.
Wow.
-[Prue] Your marbling works.
-I'm quite proud of it.
I actually quite like the flavour.
It's a bit one-dimensional.
-Okay.
-Feels like the same all the way through.
[Prue] Can I just mutilate a panda?
Come on, there's not many left as it is.
-[laughter]
-[Prue] That really is nice bread.
-Lovely.
-Thank you.
-I wonder what this was? A bloke, innit?
-[Prue] It's a fisherman, yes.
-It's crazy, Kevin.
-[Kevin laughs]
It's clever.
It's wilted a lot around here.
I'm not sure this is the correct choice.
Yeah, I roasted them and I overdid it.
The fillings
are fish pie and devilled eggs
and pickled gherkins and radishes.
[Paul] I like the flavours.
The bread is slightly overbaked.
-It's dry.
-[Kevin] Yeah.
-And it shouldn't be dry.
-Yeah.
It's a bit messy,
but it's amusing
and it tastes really good.
Thank you.
I must say, it's certainly colourful.
I think it's a little messy on the top.
[Maxy] I've got white loaf
and I've got
a seeded wholemeal loaf as well.
Fillings are salmon and avocado,
egg and cress, and prawn and crayfish.
Your three fillings are delicious,
well-seasoned and balanced,
and they actually
all go together quite nicely.
The seeded one is a bit too heavy.
The white is lovely.
[Prue] But I congratulate you
for trying to do two breads anyway.
-It's a lovely idea.
-Thank you.
It looks absolutely astonishing.
It's beautifully constructed.
-It's really original. Wonderful.
-[Paul] Hmm.
[Syabira] The bottom layer
is eggs with cucumber,
and the middle layer
is the roasted marinated chicken,
and the top layer
is the sambal anchovy cream with peanuts.
[Paul] Mmm.
The chicken in particular is delicious.
-Isn't it? Really.
-It's really good.
The lightness of the cucumber
adds to that, balances everything out.
Terrific design.
Really good flavours. Unusual.
-It's lovely.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] That was amazing.
-[Paul] Hmm.
-You've got a little bit of a lean.
-[Sandro] Lean, yeah.
I'm not surprised,
with the amount of meat inside.
This thing is ridiculous.
I've got the shredded beef,
a sirloin steak,
and I've got sloppy joes in there.
[Paul] The bread is baked beautifully.
Soft, light.
The frosting balances well with the inside
'cause inside, you've got that tang
coming from the barbecue.
You can't identify any of the food
because the barbecue sauce
overwhelms everything.
I don't see
a lot of difference between them all,
but it really is delicious.
-Thank you.
-Well made. Thank you.
-[judges] Well done.
Dawn, I think it really looks lovely.
It's a very simple design.
-Let's hope it tastes as nice as it looks.
-Oh.
-[Matt] Ooh, look at that.
-[Prue] Ah.
I think the bread's good,
but some of the bread slices
are just too thick.
Yep.
You're missing dried mince,
sesame seed, coriander.
All these key flavours
that in Greece is well known.
[Dawn] Mmm.
It's about identifying the flavours.
It's too bready as well.
[Dawn] Bread Week
has been an embarrassment.
I think
I'm at the bottom of the pile this week.
I'm quite concerned.
[Janusz] I'm really pleased with myself
because I took a big risk.
It looks like fish and chips.
They loved it, which I'm very happy.
[Kevin] The one redeeming feature
was the little cucumber man.
I'm pinning my hopes on him.
[Matt] So, eight bakers.
Did that make the competition
a little tougher?
Honestly, I think this showstopper
has been one of the most difficult
I've judged ever.
There were some exceptional things
in that showstopper.
[Paul] Janusz has done exceptionally well.
[Prue] But I think
Syabira's was even better.
Malaysian flavours, they were fantastic.
Sandro should be up there as well.
His pizza was excellent,
fourth in technical,
and the bread was exceptional.
[Prue] This morning,
I was pretty sure Carole would be leaving
because she did so badly yesterday,
and I think she's saved herself.
For me, she's still in that bottom three,
along with Dawn.
[Prue] That was pretty bland.
Kevin struggled as well.
It looked a bit of a mess.
[Noel] You've got to look at
Kevin, Dawn, and Carole.
[Prue] Because they were all so equal,
we have to look
at all their scores carefully.
Hello, bakers.
I've got the brilliant job this week
of announcing the Star Baker.
And the person
who is Star Baker this week is…
Janusz.
[cheering]
[laughter]
Thank you.
And I have the horrible job
of announcing who's going home.
And the person going home this week is…
Well, this week, nobody's going home.
[applause]
The judges felt, given the quality here,
and the fact
that Rebs and Abdul aren't here,
that everybody
deserved the chance to bake again.
[applause]
Thank you so much.
[Janusz] Feeling that you are a Star Baker
is a feeling out of this world.
You just cannot believe that someone says,
"No, you're the one this week."
[Paul] Janusz is very artistic,
almost illusion in some of his bakes.
He's clever,
and certainly one to watch going forward.
Wow, I dodged a bullet. [laughs]
So relieved.
That was, like, squeaky-bum time.
[Carole] For the next few days,
I just wanna sleep.
But no, it's practise every day.
I got me online shopping coming tomorrow,
I'm going to be on the ball.
[Prue] They're all thrilled
because nobody had to go.
They're all friends, they don't
want to see their friends going.
But sooner or later,
we have to send two bakers home,
and that's not nice.
[indistinct chatter and laughter]
[closing theme music playing]